On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

There is the student concerned about failing in college; the housewife disturbed
 about her marriage; the individual who feels he is teetering on the edge of a 
complete breakdown or psychosis; the responsible professional man who spends 
much of his time in sexual fantasies and functions inefficiently in his work; 
the brilliant student, at the top of his class, who is paralyzed by the 
conviction that he is hopelessly and helplessly inadequate; the parent who is 
distressed by his child’s behavior; the popular girl who finds herself 
unaccountably overtaken by sharp spells of black depression; the woman who fears
 that life and love are passing her by, and that her good graduate record is a 
poor recompense; the man who has become convinced that powerful or sinister 
forces are plotting against him [...] I have however come to believe that in 
spite of this bewildering horizontal multiplicity, and the layer upon layer of 
vertical complexity, there is perhaps only one problem [...] "Who am I, really?
How can I get in touch with this real self, underlying all my surface behavior? 
How can I become myself?"
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

I would like to tell you of my fresh discovery of the way feelings "hit" 
clients--a word they frequently use. The client is talking about something of 
importance, when wham! he is hit by a feeling not something named or labelled 
but an experiencing of an unknown something which has to be cautiously explored 
before it can be named at alL As one client says, "It’s a feeling that I’m 
caught with. I can’t even know what it connects with." The frequency of this 
event was striking to me. Another matter of interest was the variety of ways in 
which clients do come closer to their feeling~ Feelings "bubble up through," 
they "seep through." The client also lets himself "down into" his feeling, often
 with caution and fear. ’I want to get down into this feeling. You can kinda see
 how hard it is to get really close to it."
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

In trying to grasp and conceptualize the process of change, I was initially 
looking for elements which would mark or characterize change itself. I was 
thinking of change as an entity, and searching for its specific attributes. 
[...] Individuals move, I began to see, not from a fixity or homeostasis through
 change to a new fixity, though such a process is indeed possible. But much the 
more significant continuum is from fixity to changingness, from rigid structure
to flow, from stasis to process.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

The individual has little or no recognition of the ebb and flow of the feeling 
life within him. The ways in which he construes experience have been set by his 
past, and are rigidly unaffected by the actualities of the present. He is (to 
use the term of Gendlin and Zimring) structure-bound in his manner of 
experiencing. That is, he reacts "to the situation of now by finding it to be 
like a past experience and then reacting to that past, feeling it" [...] He 
tends to see himself as having no problems, or the problems he recognizes are 
perceived as entirely external to himself. There is much blockage of internal 
communication between self and experience. The individual at this stage is 
represented by such terms as stasis, fixity, the opposite of flow or change.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

Sometimes people express this concern by saying that if an individual were to be 
 what he truly is, he would be releasing the beast in himself. I feel somewhat 
amused by this, became I think we might take a closer look at the beasts. The 
lion is often a symbol of the "ravening beast." But what about him? Unless he 
has been very much warped by contact with humans, he has a number of the 
qualities I have been describing. To be sure, he kills when he is hungry, but he
 does not go on a wild rampage of killing, nor does he overfeed himself. He 
keeps his handsome figure better than some of us. He is he!pless and dependent 
in his puppyhood, but he moves from that to independence. He does not cling to 
dependence. He is selfish and self-centered in infancy, but in adulthood he 
shows a reasonable degree of cooperativeness, and feeds, cares for, and 
protects his young. He satisfies his sexual desires, but this does not mean 
that he goes on wild and lustful orgies. His various tendencies and urges have 
a harmony within him. He is, in some basic sense, a constructive and trustworthy
 member of the species "felis leo".
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

But being himself doesn’t "solve problems." It simply opens up a new way of 
living in which there is more depth and more height in the experience of his 
feelings; more breadth and more range. He feels more unique and hence more 
alone, but he is so much more real that his relationships with others lose their
 artificial quality, become deeper, more satisfying, and draw more of the 
realness of the otherperson into the relationship.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

"In the first place’" this "experientialist" points out, "science always has to 
do with the other, the object. Various logicians of science, including Stevens, 
the psychologist, show that it is a basic element of science that it always has 
to do with the observable object, the observable other. This is true, even if 
the scientist is experimenting on himself, for to that degree he treats himself 
as the observable other. It never has anything to do with the experiencing me. 
Now does not this quality of science mean that it must forever be irrelevant to 
an experience such as therapy, which is intensely personal, highly subjective in
 its inwardness, and dependent entirely on the relationship of two individuals 
each of whom is an experiencing me? Science can of course study the events which
 occur, but always in a way which is irrelevant to what is occurring.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

As I learn the laws of learning I use them to manipulate others through 
advertisements, through propaganda, through prediction of their responses and 
the control of those responses. It is not too strong a statement to say that the
 growth of knowledge in the social sciences contains within itself a powerful 
tendency toward social eontxol, toward control of the many by the few. An 
equally strong tendency is toward the weakening or destruction of the 
existential person. When all are regarded as objects, the subective individual, 
the inner self, the person in the process of becoming, the unreflective 
consciousness of being, the whole inward side of living life, is weakened, 
devalued, or destroyed.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

Science exists only in people. Each scientitic project has its creative 
inception, its process, and its tentative conclusion, in a person or persons. 
Knowledge -- even scientific knowledge -- is that which is subjectively 
acceptable. Scientific knowledge can be communicated only to those who are 
subjectively ready to receive its communication. The utilization of science also
 occurs only through people who are in pursuit of values which have meaning for
them.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

Science has its inception in a particular person who is pursuing aims, values, 
purposes, which have personal and subjective meaning for him. As a part of this 
pursuit, he, in some area, "wants to find out." Consequently, if he is to be a 
good scientist, he immerses himself in the relevant experience, whether that be 
the physics laboratory, the world of plant or animal life, the hospital, the 
psychological laboratory or clinic, or whatever. [...] What I am describing is 
the initial phase of science, probably in most important phase, but one which 
American scientists, particularly psychologists, have been prone to minimize or 
ignore. It is not so much that it has been denied as that it has been quickly 
brushed off. Kenneth Spence has said that this aspect of science is "simply 
taken for granted." Like many experiences taken for granted, it also tends to be
 forgotten. It is indeed in the matrix of immediate personal, subjective 
experience that all science, and each individual scientific research, has its 
origin.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

What I will do with the knowledge gained through scientific method --whether I 
will use it to understand, enhance, enrich, or use it to control, manipulate and
 destroy -- is a matter of subjective choice dependent upon the values which 
have personal meaning for me. If, out of fright and defensiveness, I block out 
from my awareness large areas of experience, --if I can see only those facts 
which support my present beliefs, and am blind to all others -- if I can see 
only the obiective aspects of life, and cannot perceive the subjective -- if in 
any way I cut off my perception from the full range of its actual sensitivity 
-- then I am likely to be socially destructive, whether I use as tool the 
knowledge and instruments of science, or the power and emotional strength of a 
subjective relationship. And on the other hand if I am open to my experience, 
and can permit all of the sensings of my intricate organism to be available to 
my awareness, then I am likely to use myself, my subiective experience, and my 
scientific knowledge, in ways which are realistically constructive.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

Reflection of feeling by the counselor is followed, more often than would be 
expected by chance, by continued self-exploration or insight. [...] A counselor 
response requesting clarification tends to be followed by repetition of the 
request, or by a decrease in self-exploration and insight. [...] 
self-exploration and insight, [which are] positive aspects of the therapeutic 
process, appear to be furthered primarily by responses which are "reflections 
of feeling," while evaluative, interpretive, and "structuring" responses tend 
to foster client reactions which are negative for the process of therapy.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

When there is an incongruence between experience and awareness, it is usually 
spoken of as defensiveness, or denial to awareness. When the incongruence is 
between awareness and communication it is usually thought of as falseness or 
deceit. [...] If an individual is at this moment entirely congruent, his actual 
physiological experience being accurately represented in his awareness, and his 
communication being accurately congruent with his awareness, then his 
communication could never contain an expression of an external fact. If he was 
congruent he could not say, "That rock is hard"; "He is stupid"; "You are bad"; 
or "She is intelligent." The reason for this is that we never experience such 
"facts." Accurate awareness of experience would always be expressed as 
feelings, perceptions, meanings from an internal frame of reference. I never 
know that he is stupid or you are bad. I can only perceive that you seem this 
way to me. Likewise, strictly speaking I do not know that the rock is hard, 
even though I may be very sure that I experience it as hard if I fall down on 
it.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

With scientific discovery and invention proceeding, we are told, at the rate of 
geometric progression, a generally passive and culturebound people cannot cope 
with the multiplying issues and problems. Unless individuals, groups, and 
nations can imagine, construct, and creatively revise new ways of relating to 
these complex changes, the lights will go out. Unless man can make new and 
original adaptations to his environment as rapidly as his science can change 
the environment, our culture will perish. Not only individual maladjustment and 
group tensions, but international annihilation will be the price we pay for a 
lack of creativity.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

This last suggests another way of describing openness to experience. It means 
lack of rigidity and permeability of boundaries in concepts, beliefs, 
perceptions, and hypotheses. It means a tolerance for ambiguity where ambiguity 
exists. It means the ability to receive much conflicting information without 
forcing closure upon the situation.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

When we cease to form judgments of the other individual from our own locus of 
evaluation, we are fostering creativity. For the individual to find himself in 
an atmosphere where he is not being evaluated, not being measured by some 
external standard, is enormously freeing. Evaluation is always a threat, always 
creates a need for defensiveness, always means that some portion of experience 
must be denied to awareness. If this product is evaluated as good by external 
standards, then I must not admit my own dislike of it. If what I am doing is bad 
by external standards, then I must not be aware of the fact that it seems to be 
me, to be part of myself. But if judgments based on external standards are not 
being made then I can be more open to my experience, can recognize my own 
likings and dislikings, the nature of the materials and of my reaction to them, 
more sharply and more sensitively. I can begin to recognize the locus of 
evaluation within myself. Hence I am moving toward creativity. [...] It should 
be pointed out that to cease evaluating another is not to cease having 
reactions. [...] "I don’t like your idea" (or painting, or invention, or 
writing), is not evaluation, but a reaction. It is subtely but sharply 
different from a judgment which says, "What you are doing is bad (or good), and 
this quality is assigned to you from some external source." The first statement 
permits the individual to maintain his own locus of evaluation. It holds the 
possibility that I am unable to appreciate something which is actually very 
good. The second statement, whether it praises or condemns, tends to put the 
person at the mercy of outside forces. He is being told that he cannot simply 
ask himself whether this product is a valid expression of himself; he must be 
concerned with what others think.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

We know how to establish conditions which will result in increased psychological
 rigidity in members of a group. Beier, in a careful study, took two matched 
groups of students and measured several aspects of their abilities, particularly
 abstract reasoning. Each of the students in one group was then given an 
analysis of his personality based upon the Rorsehach test. Following this both 
groups were re-tested as to their abilities. The group which had been given an 
evaluation of their personalities showed a decrease in flexibility, and a 
significant decrease in ability to carry on abstract reasoning. They became more
 rigid, anxious, and disorganized in their thinking, in contrast to the control 
group. [...] This evaluation seems very similar to many evaluations made in our 
schools and universities under the guise of education.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

We know how to disintegrate a man’s personality structure, dissolving his 
self-confidence, destroying the concept he has of himself,and making him 
dependent on another. A very careful study by Hinlde and Wolff of methods of 
Communist interrogation prisoners, particularly in Communist China, has given us
 a reasonably accurate picture of the process popularly known as "brainwashing."
 [...] the individual under suspicion is rejected and isolated for a long time, 
then his need for a human relationship is gready intensified. The interrogator 
exploits this by building a relationship in which he shows mostly 
non-acceptance, and does all he can to arouse guilt, conflict and anxiety. He is
 acceptant toward the prisoner only when the prisoner "cooperates" by being 
willing to view events through the interrogator’s eyes. He is completely 
rejecting of the prisoner’s internal frame of reference, or personal perception 
of events. Gradually, out of his need for more acceptance, the prisoner comes to
 accept halftruths as being true, until little by little he has given up his own
 view of himself and of his behavior, and has accepted the viewpoint of his 
interrogator. He is very much demoralized and disintegrated as a person, and 
largely the puppet of the interrogator. He is then willing to "confess" that he 
is an enemy of the state, and has committed all kinds of treasonable acts which 
either he has not done, or which actually had a very different significance.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

[...] the behavioral sciences are making rapid strides in the understanding, 
prediction, and control of behavior [...] Robert Oppenheimer [...] says that 
there are some similarities between physics and psychology, and one of these 
similarities "is the extent to which our progress will create profound problems 
of decision in the public domain. The physicists have been quite noisy about 
their contributions in the last decade. The time may well come -- as psychology 
acquires a sound objective corpus of knowledge about human behavior and feeling 
-- when the powers of control thus made available will pose far graver problems 
than any the physicists have posed." 
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

We can say that man is always a free agent, in some sense that makes scientific 
study of his behavior impossible. [...] "In any event, no scientific 
investigation of past behavior can become the basis of predictions of future 
behavior." The attitude of the general public is somewhat similar. Without 
necessarily denying the possibility of a behavioral science, the man in the 
street simply ignores the developments which are taking place. He may show a 
mild reaction of annoyance to the revelations of [...] how heavily, and in what 
manipulative fashion, the findings of the behavioral sciences are used by modern
 industrial corporations. But by and large he sees nothing in aU this to be 
concerned about, any more than he did in the first theoretical statements that 
the atom could be split.
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

"Now that we know how positive reinforcement works, and why negative doesn’t 
[...] we can be more deliberate and hence more successful, in our cultural 
design. We can achieve a sort of control under which the controlled, though they
 are following a code much more scrupulously than was ever the case under the 
old system, nevertheless feel free. They are doing what they want to do, not 
what they are forced to do. That’s the source of the tremendous power of 
positive reinforcement -- there’s no restraint and no revolt. By a careful 
design, we control not the final behavior, but the inclination to behave -- the 
motives, the desires, the wishes. The curious thing is that in that case the 
question of freedom never arises." 
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

Man, we once believed, was free to express himself in art, music and literature,
 to inquire into nature, to seek salvation in his own way. He could initiate 
action and make spontaneous and capricious changes of course. Under the most 
extreme duress some sort of choice remained to him. He could resist any effort 
to control him, though it might cost him his life. But science insists that 
action is initiated by forces impinging upon the individual, and that caprice is
 only another name for behavior for which we have not yet found a cause." 
%
On Becoming a Person - Carl Rogers:

I feel that to the limit of my ability I have played my part in advancing the 
behavioral sciences, but if the result of my efforts and those of others is that
 man becomes a robot, created and controlled by a science of his own making, 
then I am very unhappy indeed. If the good life of the future consists in so 
conditioning individuals through the control of their environment, and through 
the control of the rewards they receive, that they w]ll be inexorably 
productive, well-behaved, happy or whatever, then I want none of it.
